Are right let's do this let's implement Tompson something.
So I suggest we're going to do it this way that is where we're going to dedicate one tutorial for each
step of the three steps here and therefore in the story we're going to tackle this first step.
Step one where we have to take a random draw from the following distribution the beta distribution for
each of the strategy.
Therefore you guess now that we have to make a second trip so let's do this let's make a second for
loop that is going to loop over all the different strategies that is all of our nine strategies.
So again we have to loop from 0 to D and if you want you can only include D because zero is a default
lower bound.
So for e in range 0 the that is for each of our nine strategies.
Well what are we going to do.
Well we have to take a random drop from the beta distribution with the following two parameters.
So I remind that this parameter is the number of times the strategy I has received are one we wanted
to run and and this number here is the number of times the strategy I has received is zero reward up
to round it.
And so let me just remind the intuition of all this.
It's really important that you get this and to explain this I'm going to take again our beta distribution.
So let's suppose as it is the case in this slide that we have three strategies.
Well we have three beta distributions corresponding to each of these three strategies.
That's one beta distribution corresponding to first strategy second beta distribution corresponding
to the second strategy and a third distribution corresponding to a third strategy.
And so at the beginning remember we initialized the number of times the strategies have received are
we 1 2 zeros for all the strategies and same we initialized the number of times the strategies have
received a zero word with zeroes because at the beginning all the strategies have not received anything.
And therefore since here we have these two parameters in the baby's Shushan Well that means that each
strategy at the beginning will have the same beta distribution.
No they will all be stacked on the same one and then the most important thing to understand is that
as soon as a strategy gets a one word well this will be incremented by 1 as in step 3.
Now if the strategy selector received one word increment this by one and therefore this is well will
be incremented by 1 and the most important thing to understand is that as soon as this is incremented
by 1 the beta distribution of this strategy will be shifted a little bit to the right so that it gets
positive probabilities for higher conversion rates.
Right.
Remember remember that on the x axis are the conversion rate that is the average rate of success over
many rounds.
And on the y axis is the probability.
So as soon as we get one we word while this is increment by one this is increment by one as well.
And therefore this is shifted to the right so that some higher conversion rates have positive probabilities
and same as soon as we get a Zuel reward like when the strategy is like that gets a zero reward.
Then this is increment by 1.
So this is increment by 1 and therefore this is shifted to the left so that the lower conversion rates
that is the lower rates of successors have more positive probabilities.
And since the average conversion rate corresponds to this number here in the middle of the beta distribution
and same for this one the average conversion rate corresponds to this number here in the middle of the
beta distribution will progressively as you know the one we war strategies are shifted to the right
and the zero reward strategies are shifted to the left.
Well their average conversion rate are respectively more shifted to the right and to the left and therefore
that's how Thompson sampling little by little will manage to get separately.
The best strategy that has the highest conversion rate by shifting it more and more to the right each
time it gets on one word.
And then as well by shifting the other strategies that have a lower conversion rate to the left so that
when we reach step 2 and we get you know the maximum of the conversion rates well since the best strategy
was shifted to the right and the other strategies were shifted to the left.
Well the further we get into the rounds the more we will select the best strategy because the best strategy
has the highest conversion rate.
And therefore since we get the max here well automatically over the rounds we'll get more and more this.
Best strategy.
All right so that's the whole intuition behind it and that's exactly what we will implement with Tompson
sampling.
So it's important to remind this intuition before we implemented things so that when we implement this
all the logic flows easily in our brain and in our hands coding the algorithm.
All right let's do this let's go back to the code to implement step 1.
All right.
So we're about to get the random draw for each of the nine strategies and we're going to call this random
draw random data which will be exactly this random draw for each of the nine strategies and to get it
we're going to use Well the random module we imported here are random and from the random module.
We're going to call the peda variate function the beta void function which will exactly return a random
drug from the beta distribution of the following parameters.
And therefore that's exactly what we have to in in this function.
And I want and press one and zero and plus 1.
So let's do this.
We already have them.
And I want and corresponds to this very goal.
There is number of times the strategy has received that we were one of two around and remember that
this is a list of nine elements corresponding to the nine strategies so we'll get the right strategy
we're dealing with right now which is strategy of index.
So let's get this.
That's the first parameter of our beta distribution.
And as we just said since this is a list we need to get the index by which corresponds to the strategy
we're dealing with right now.
And let's not forget to add a plus one.
Okay perfect.
And now let's get the second parameter which is the same thing but with the zero rewards that is the
number of times the strategy I has received a zero reward and that's it.
That's all we need to do to get the random draw from the beta distribution of this specific strategy.
We're dealing with right now in the for loop.
So that will give us this random draw for each of the nine strategies.
And so now we're ready to move on to Step 2 to select that is to play the action to select the strategy
that has the highest of these random draws we got for each of our nine strategies.
So let's do this in a next tutorial.
And until then enjoy AI.